Add implementations documentation (#565)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: site-src/implementations.md

# Implementations

This document tracks downstream implementations of Gateway API and provides status and resource references for them.

Implementors of Gateway API are encouraged to update this document with status information about their implementations, the versions they cover, and documentation to help users get started.

## Implementation Status

> - [Contour][1] (alpha)

Reviewer: can we make this a table?

```
| Implementation | Status |
| ---- | ---- | 
etc
```

Reviewer: Also, if we can put the version implemented (instead of just Alpha)
that would be useful for users

Reviewer: e.g. Supports `v1alpha1`

Author: When this was in draft it started out as a table, see:

https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/pull/565#discussion_r583944465

However @robscott had particularly requested that I change it to the format you see here.

If Rob is OK with changing it back to a table but using the format you suggest above, that sounds good to me. Just want to check with him.

Reviewer: This is a minor thing and we can change in a later diff. My thinking was that table is easier to deal with more info (say which versions are supported)

Reviewer 2: I also think a table would be a bit cleaner (though we don't have to block this PR). The original table had the vendors as columns instead of rows which doesn't leave much room for written content. The following format would allow us to take the existing written content we have in the page and surface it through a table.

```
| Implementation | Status |
| [Project/Product](link) | Explanation of progress towards support and/or support levels (which versions) | 
| [Project/Product](link) | Explanation of progress towards support and/or support levels (which versions) | 
etc
```

I think support is a gray area right now since we are early in the spec so it's prob too early for a clean cut version/checkmark box.

> - [Google Cloud][2] (work in progress)

Reviewer 2: Should be:

```
- [Google Kubernetes Engine][2] (work in progress)
```

# Implementations

This document tracks downstream implementations of Gateway API and provides status and resource references for them.

Implementors of Gateway API are encouraged to update this document with status information about their implementations, the versions they cover, and documentation to help users get started.

## Implementation Status

|                | [Contour][1]       | [GCP][2]           | [Istio][3]         | [Kong][4]         | [Knative][5]       | [Traefik][6]       |
| :------------- | :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: | :---------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
| [v0.1.x][v0.1] | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark: |:heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_check_mark: |
| [v0.2.x][v0.2] | :heavy_check_mark: | :heavy_plus_sign:  | :heavy_plus_sign:  |:heavy_plus_sign:  | :heavy_minus_sign: | :heavy_plus_sign:  |

- :heavy_check_mark: available
- :heavy_plus_sign: in progress
- :heavy_minus_sign: not planned

[1]:#contour
[2]:#google-cloud-platform
[3]:#istio
[4]:#kong
[5]:#knative

> [6]:#traefik

Reviewer 3: Although I like this table, our docs site rendering does not :(. Maybe we can just turn this into a list of implementations with approximate state in parentheses. Something like:

```
- [Contour][1] (alpha)
- [Google Cloud][2] (in progress)
...
```

Author: Sure, I'll change it to that format instead, and perhaps we can wait until further down the road to see if people care to have a version implementation table, since it wouldn't seem to be all too important right now. :+1:

[v0.1]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/releases/tag/v0.1.0
[v0.2]:https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/releases/tag/v0.2.0

## Project References

In this section you will find specific links to blog posts, documentation and other Gateway API references for specific implementations.

### Contour

> [Contour][contour] is an open source ingress controller for Kubernetes.

Author: TODO: need to verify that this is how the contour maintainers want to be represented

Reviewer 3: @danehans @jpeach @youngnick Does this look good to you?

Author: Based on updates from @stevesloka below, I believe we should be all set now. Let me know if there's anything you still feel needs to be changed!

> Contour currently implements the latest `v0.2.x` Gateway API Specification.

Author: I didn't see a `v0.1.0` implementation, but I could have missed it?

Reviewer 4: We started with v0.1.0 but never released it, so v0.2.0 is technically accurate. Also, I'm not sure that we're "fully implemented", it's very much a work in progress.

Author: Ok thanks for the heads up! @robscott had suggested maybe dropping the implementation version stuff so perhaps I'll just go with that and then individual maintainers can put whatever they think are important notes about their implementations in their sections?

> See the [Contour Gateway API Guide][contour-1] for information on how to deploy and use Contours's Gateway implementation.

Author: We need to see if the Contour maintainers want to add more resources here, docs, blogs, e.t.c.

Reviewer 4: We could also add some more info about the Contour Operator which helps to deploy things. @danehans

Author: Sounds good, _please_ do feel free to add github suggestions for what to change I'm happy to commit them I'm really seeing all of these sections as placeholders that eventually the maintainers will want to add their own writeup for once we have a loose format down anyhow :+1:

Author: I think we should just add more context in a follow up, if that's OK with you? Since this PR is mainly about adding the base page and getting some general information down. Let me know what you think, and feel free to unresolve and let me know your preference.

[contour]:https://projectcontour.io
[latest]:https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/routing/providers/kubernetes-gateway/
[contour-1]:https://projectcontour.io/guides/gateway-api/

### Google Cloud Platform

> The [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)][gcp] is a cloud computing platform and infrastructure provider.

Author: @robscott is that how you and your team want to be represented? Please do feel free to make direct edits to get it the way you want it.

Reviewer 3: I think "Google Cloud" is the preferred term now. I'll let @mark-church weigh in on what we'd like to include here. I think we'll likely also want to add some GKE specific reference, but not quite sure how to integrate that.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Google Cloud][gcp] is a cloud computing platform and infrastructure provider.
```

Reviewer 2: @shaneutt thanks for contributing this!

Here's a short statement we can use:

```
The [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)][gke] is a managed Kubernetes platform offered by Google Cloud. 

GKE is actively working towards an implementation of the Gateway API for orchestration of [Google Cloud Load Balancing][gclb]. The GKE Gateway Controller will become a managed component of GKE to automate and ease load balancing for containers.

[gke]:https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[gclb]:https://cloud.google.com/load-balancingThe [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)][gke] is a managed Kubernetes platform offered by Google Cloud. 
```

Author: Sounds good, thank you! I've updated to match your contents: 267f6fbfea56821cbaeb1241c1842333abfb5ac9

> GCP is actively working towards an implementation of the Gateway API `v0.2.x` specification, and status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.

Author: @robscott I wasn't sure if you had any links to documentation, google docs, or blog posts you wanted to provide here yet?

Reviewer 3: Nothing public yet, but hope to have something out soon. I think this is good for now.

Author: :+1:

[gcp]:https://cloud.google.com

### Istio

> [Istio][istio] is an open source [service mesh][mesh] for Kubernetes clusters.

Author: TODO: need to verify that this is how the Istio maintainers want to be represented

Reviewer 2: @howardjohn not sure if this should clarify that the current Gateway API is for Istio Ingress but not currently Istio sidecar mesh

Author: Based on below responses I think we should be OK with Istio, but let me know if we're not!

Istio currently supports the previous `v0.1.x` Gateway API specification and is working towards supporting the latest `v0.2.x` release.

> Status updates and documentation for `v0.2.x` will be provided here as the work progresses.

Author: Need to verify this, as I was just guessing when I made the PR draft, I'll do some more digging before I take this out of draft and make it ready for review.

Reviewer 5: we are importing the v0.2.x code now, but its in our `master` branch not a release yet and our docs aren't updated yet to point to the new "Gateway" name. Not sure what emoji that turns into :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Understood, thanks for the heads up! I'll try to get this updated to better reflect the state of things.

Author: I've updated this to be simpler and then more context can be added later in future iterations, lmkwyt :+1: 

5f51da790e097b5030548838e5bd51abceadc3fb

See the [Istio Gateway API Documentation][istio-1] for information on how to deploy and use Istio's Gateway implementation.

[istio]:https://istio.io
[mesh]:https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#what-is-a-service-mesh
[istio-1]:https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/service-apis/

### Kong

[Kong][kong] is an open source API Gateway built for hybrid and multi-cloud environments.

Kong is actively working towards an implementation of the Gateway API `v0.2.x` specification for it's [Kubernetes Ingress Controller][kic] and status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.

You can subscribe to [kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/issues/692][kong-1] to track the implementation progress and contribute.

[kong]:https://konghq.com
[kic]:https://github.com/kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller
[kong-1]:https://github.com/kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/issues/692

### Knative

> [Knative][knative] is an open source Kubernetes-based platform to deploy and manage modern serverless workloads.

Author: TODO: again need to make sure the Knative maintainers are on board with this representation. Also I'm _not sure_ whether they're actively working on an implementation or planning to. I'll do more digging before taking this out of draft state.

Reviewer 3: @nak3 Do you have any insight you can provide here?

Reviewer 6: Yes, It is a little bit weird that Knative is listed in the Implementation. Knative is going to support the Ingress which implemented gateway-api, so Knative is a kind of "user" rather than "implementation" as John Howard also mentioned below.

Author: Ok, for now I've opted to remove it from the doc for now and then we can add further context as needed in other iterations: 7781c9acbc944c0c05270bc322bd2ba24509a17c

> Knative is actively working towards an implementation of the Gateway API, status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.

Reviewer 5: I think its a bit misleading? Knative is a user of the gateway API, not an implementation, afaik

Author: Roger that, I'll find someone from Knative and work on getting this written more appropriately for their liking :+1:

Reviewer 6: Yeah, as @howardjohn also mentioned, Knative is an user of the gateway API but not an implementation. Knative is going to support the implemented Ingress like Istio, Kong, Contour etc.

Author: I've removed Knative for now as per above comments: 7781c9acbc944c0c05270bc322bd2ba24509a17c

We can come back around to documenting it further in a later iteration :+1:

[knative]:https://knative.dev/

### Traefik

[Traefik][traefik] is an open source cloud-native application proxy.

> Traefik currently supports the previous `v0.1.x` Gateway API specification, check the [Kubernetes Gateway Documentation][traefik-1] for information on how to deploy and use Traefik's Gateway implementation.

Reviewer 7: We could add a hint about enabling and installing it with the helm chart. Not 100% sure this is the correct place tough :)

Author: Sounds fine to me, is there just a link to that installation you want to list here?

Author: For the time being I'm going to pass just so we can get the base page down, but we can definitely add further context as follow up :+1:

> Traefik is currently working on implementing `v0.2.x`, status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.

Author: Similar to the above, need to check in with Traefik maintainers that they're happy with this representation.

Reviewer 7: Apart from that Traefik is good. Thanks a lot!

I was about to do the same this weekend 🥳

> Traefik is currently working on implementing `v0.2.x`, status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.

Reviewer 7: + TCP :)

Author: ```suggestion
Traefik is currently working on implementing TCP, status updates and documentation will be provided here as the work progresses.
```

Author: Just double checking this is what you wanted? Otherwise please drop a suggestion and I'll be happy to commit it :bow:
